How do we know
that Jehovah really sees each one of us,
no matter where we are?
Consider an example:
Thousands of refugees who faced
severe hardships in their home countries
have sought shelter in parts of Europe.
Watch how Jehovah
has lovingly assured them
that they’re not alone
by satisfying their spiritual thirst.
Welcome to Greece!
We really feel that Jehovah is blessing us
by opening a large door
of opportunities to preach the good news
to the many refugees
who are streaming into the country.
For this reason, the brothers
immediately informed us of the situation
and we directed the bodies of elders
to concentrate on the harbors,
especially in Chios.
The brothers were willing to work in shifts
—24 hours a day.
The refugee shelters in our area
only have families with children
and are located near a military airport.
Whenever military planes flew overhead
and the children would see and hear them,
they would immediately run
and try to hide because they were afraid.
They sought protection
from the tragic conditions
they had experienced during warfare.
This impressed upon us
how greatly they needed
the comforting message of the good news,
so we felt the urge to approach them.
Therefore,
the Service Department arranged
for four language classes
to be held for the brothers.
We try to speak to people
in a language quite different from our own.
At times, we might think:
‘Will these people understand us?
Will we be able to reach
their heart with these basic truths?’
Something that helped me not to hesitate
to approach these people
despite the language barrier
is what our teachers told us
in the language class:
“Go and talk to them.
“Show them things from the Bible.
“Even if you don’t say things perfectly,
they will understand you.”
After we received permission
from the branch office,
we also printed thousands of tracts,
since we did not have enough.
This whole effort created
an atmosphere of enthusiasm.
I’m deeply moved when I see how lovingly
Jehovah cares for these people
who have never had the opportunity
to hear the Kingdom message
that gives them a future and a hope.
It was exciting
for them to hear that we have
a Bible-based video in their language.
We told them that the problems, calamities,
and the terrible war they had experienced
were not punishment from God,
but the result of the influence
Satan the Devil exercises
over this system of things.
And this provided
a good answer to their question.
On a return visit,
after two days,
a refugee girl said something very touching:
“Now I understand why
we have to go through all this.
It’s very difficult,
but it’s not God’s fault.”
On another occasion,
Gardinia, a refugee woman
who showed interest, told us:
“Since meeting you,
I have a purpose in life.
“I have a reason to live.
Until now, I was just waiting to die.”
A refugee approached
the Arabic witnessing cart,
and we read Revelation 21:4 to him.
He said, “Please,
could you read that to me once again?”
So we read it a second time.
He replied,
“May I have a Bible of my own?”
So we gave him a Bible.
Then he said,
“Would you please show me
the sentence you read in my Bible?”
So we marked the verse for him.
And on the way back
to our home at about 11 o’clock at night,
on the same road, at a well-lit point,
we saw that same refugee
sitting on the sidewalk reading the Bible.
About two and a half years ago,
I met Moustafa.
He attended the meetings
and made speedy progress.
Moustafa was baptized a few months
before the refugees started pouring in.
We do not believe
that this was a coincidence.
He would say,
“I want to speak about Jehovah,
but I can’t do that
in the Greek language.”
When I can speak to people who are refugees
—just as I am a refugee—
in my own language,
this is a great opportunity for me.
And when I see that they listen
to the truth and are loving it,
it makes my heart beat faster.
It touches my heart.
By expanding my ministry,
I’m sharing in a form of service
that could even be described
as missionary work,
since I’m helping
people hear about Jehovah
for the very first time.
I’m living what I have only read
about in experiences.
Many were
—perhaps for the first time—
discovering new skills in themselves,
indicating how Jehovah
through his spirit can enable certain ones
to cultivate qualities they didn’t realize
they had to such an extent.
We are so grateful to Jehovah
for opening a door
leading to such wonderful activity.
It gives us great joy,
and we praise him daily for this.
At the time this report was prepared,
over 100 Bible studies had been started.
One refugee told the brothers:
“You are the best thing
that has happened to us here in Greece.
We thank Jehovah for meeting you.”
Another said:
“We do not need material things.
“We need hope,
and you are giving this
to us through the Bible.”